https://www.onetonline.org/help/online/scales

The level and importance scales each have a different range of possible scores. Ratings on Level were collected on a 0-7 scale, and ratings on Importance were collected on a 1-5 scale. To make reports generated by O*NET OnLine more intuitively understandable to users, descriptor average ratings were standardized to a scale ranging from 0 to 100. The equation for conversion of original ratings to standardized scores is:

S = ( (O - L) / (H - L) ) * 100

**S** is the standardized score, 
**O** is the original rating score on one of the three scales, 
**L** is the lowest possible score on the rating scale used, and 
**H** is the highest possible score on the rating scale used. 

For example, an original Importance rating score of 3 is converted to a standardized score of 50 (50 = [ [3 - 1] / [5 - 1] ] * 100). 

For another example, an original Level rating score of 5 is converted to a standardized score of 71 (71 = [ [5 - 0] / [7 - 0] ] * 100). 

## What We Are Using

**Importance**	Tasks, Knowledge, Skills, Abilities, and Work Activities	This rating indicates the degree of importance a particular descriptor is to the occupation. The possible ratings range from "Not Important" (1) to "Extremely Important" (5).

**Level** 	Knowledge, Skills, Abilities, and Work Activities	This rating indicates the degree, or point along a continuum, to which a particular descriptor is required or needed to perform the occupation. 

**Eductaion** This is shown via percent frequency distribution, we can give the user an idea of the most common education for the occupation, not neccesarily compare their education to it.


## Algorithm for Comparison

- The application asks users to rate their current proficiency for each selected skill on a 0–7 scale, matching the ONET Level Scale.

User Input = 0 - 5

- The application will then calculate the gap between the ONET skill level and User's Skill Level

Gap = Onet_Level - User_Level

- The gap is weighted by the **importance**

importance_weight = onet_imporantance / 5

weighted_gap = gap * importance_weight

- Skills will get sorted from highest to lowest in terms of priority based on the gap/importance level.


